Now that we've learned how to harvest our bag of words, what can we do with it?
As a simple next step,
we could categorize our bags.
Not all apples are created equal.
Some may be good and some may be bad.
For instance, words like loss, bankruptcy,
and damage are likely to indicate negative problems,
so we can move them to the negative pile.
Words like great, breakthrough,
and innovation are associated with positive conditions,
so we can move them to the positive pile.
We can perform this procedure systematically using a wordlist.
So, all the words matching the word list can be moved to their corresponding categories.
In the end, we can get a sentiment score by
computing the proportion of words matching our wordlist.
In addition to positive or negative,
there could also be other possible categories,
like law-related or uncertain.
You may even come up with other brand new categories.
So, where do we find this wordlist?
Researchers have compiled different wordlists for analyzing documents,
and you can find some examples in the links we've included below the video.
Although, the best wordlist may be ones that are tailored specifically to your needs.